
Dear TREC 2011 participants,

Registration is now available for the TREC 2011
conference.  The registration site is linked from the
active participants' part of the TREC web site
(Conference Information->TREC conference registration form).
Please remember that you must be a member of
a team that actually submitted a TREC run to attend
the TREC conference.

The registration fee is $438. Since this figure
is computed to just cover costs, we do not offer
discounted fees (such as for students, for example).
You must register for the conference by 5:00pm EST
on November 9, 2011.

The General Conference Information page
also has information about the block of rooms
that has been reserved for the conference
at the Holiday Inn Gaithersburg.  You are responsible for
making your own hotel reservations.  Reservations
through the room block must be made
by October 31, 2011.  TREC will provide transportation
to/from the Holiday Inn and NIST in the mornings and
evenings of the conference.


There are several points that are given on the General
Conference Information page, but I am going to repeat here
because they are important:
    1.  You absolutely *must* pre-register.  You cannot get
          on to the NIST campus unless we expect you.
          Registration closes on Nov 9.

    2.  If you are not a US citizen, the registration process
         will ask you for additional information.  You must
         provide this information to be granted access to
         the NIST campus.

    3.  Everyone must present a government-issued photo id
         on the first day you come to the NIST campus.
         For non-US citizens, this ID *must* be a passport.
         If the passport you will use as ID is issued from
         Cuba, Iran, Sudan, or Syria you *must* contact
         Lori Buckland before Oct 14 (earlier is much better)
         since additional  information is required to process
         your registration.

   4.  You may drive to the NIST campus, but you must show
         either the car's registration card or rental agreement to
         get the required parking pass.  Without documentation,
         you will have to leave the car at the visitor's center
         and take the NIST Ground Shuttle to the administration
        building (conference venue).

The conference agenda is not yet created, and won't be finalized
for some weeks.  I will send out another message in the
next few days outlining the next steps with respect to TREC
participation.

For travel planning purposes, the TREC conference
is scheduled from Tuesday, November 15--Friday, November 18.
The Tuesday sessions are only in the afternoon: there is an
introduction to TREC scheduled for 2:00pm on that day, and
some tracks may hold track-specific workshops on Tuesday
afternoon.  The main conference will begin on Wednesday morning.
We have tried in the past to make sure the conference ends
by 2:00pm on Friday to facilitate travel, but it is not yet clear
that we can do that this year---TREC 2011 has the largest number
of tracks that TREC has ever had, and we are on pace to
have the largest number of participating groups ever, too.
We may need some more time on Friday afternoon to fit
everything in.

Ellen






