Dear crowdsourcing track participants,
 
The TREC 2011 crowdsourcing track submission system is now
ready to accept runs. To submit your run, go to
http://ir.nist.gov/trecsubmit/crowd.html
and fill out the web form. You will need the TREC 2011
active participants' login and password to access the form.
 
The submission form asks for a run tag. This tag is a unique
identifier for this run across all runs for all tracks, and is restricted
to 15 alphanumeric characters. Including your group id in the
run tag is a good way of creating a tag that will be unique
across all runs from all tracks (we already have most variations of
'Run1', and 'run1', for example). The naming conventions
for the file name of your submission are likely to result in
a name that is too long for a runtag, plus we don't allow
periods in run tags.
 
The submission system does not enforce the naming conventions
given in the guidelines, but please use them. Importantly,
the submission system will remove any characters other than
alphanumerics, '_', '-', and '.' from the file name when it saves it
on the NIST end. The system will enforce that the "extra" file
ends with '.extra' (to ensure that the submission file itself doesn't
get overwritten). Either or both of the submission file and extra file may
be compressed using gzip or bz2, and that extension will be removed
before checking for the .extra.
 
Each group may submit up to three runs for each task. Only one
of those runs should be marked as the primary run. This is expensive
to enforce at submission time, so the submission system does
not do so.
 
Once you select the "Send Form" button, the submission system
will upload the file(s) you specified and run the check_input script
on the submission file. If there are errors found by check_input
(or, the files can't be uploaded, or other form validation checks fail),
a report will be sent back to the browser. Your run is *not* submitted
if this happens and no record of the attempted submission is kept at NIST.
If the run is successfully submitted, that report will also be sent
to the browser, plus an email confirmation is sent to the address
entered on the submission form. If you do not receive a confirmation
message for a run you thought had been successfully submitted
(after sufficient time to account for the vagaries of email), please first
check
your spam filter to see if it got nabbed there. If there is still no sign
of the confirmation, let me know and I will check whether the run was indeed
successfully submitted.
 
You cannot "correct" a run by re-submitting with the same run tag
(there is too much danger of overwriting somebody else's run if we
allowed that). If you need to replace a run, send me email giving
me the run tag of the run that is in error. I will mark that run as
being errorful, which is as if it were not submitted in all respects
except that the run tag is no longer available to be used. You will
then need to resubmit a corrected run under a new run tag for
the run to be considered submitted.
 
I will not debug your run if check_input is rejecting it, so don't email
a submission file to me. (Though, of course, if you think the
check script is buggy, please do let me know that.)
 
The submission deadline for both tasks is September 15. As per TREC
tradition,
that means the official deadline is 11:59pmEDT on September 15, but the
effective deadline is a few hours more since no one at NIST will close the
submission system until the following morning. For those of you who like
to cut things very fine, I anticipate that it really is only a few hours
more
in this case: I have a variety of things I need to do on Sept 16 and will be
at
NIST very early.
 
Happy TREC-ing,
 
Ellen
 

